In order to learn SQL, we'll go through some simple exercises to start
 
Given the following statement:
 
CREATE TABLE `users` (
`id` int(11) unsigned NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
`email` varchar(255) NOT NULL,
`password` varchar(32) NOT NULL,
PRIMARY KEY (`id`)
);
What does the AUTO_INCREMENT flag do?
next id will be 12 on order
 
What does int(11) mean?
id can be 11 characters long.
 
What is users in this statement?
 "users'
 
Explain the concept of a primary key.
 is id of the table, is unique
 
 
Explain the concept of a foreign key.
 the foreign key is id, that connect two tables.
 
 
Queries
 
All the following questions deal with the attached SQL database. Make sure you follow the directions in the Google Doc on how to import the database.
 
Get a list of all the usernames from the users table.
 
SELECT email FROM users;
 
Get the name of all users who have placed orders for an iPhone
SELECT email FROM users
INNER JOIN orders 
ON users.id = orders.user_id
 
INNER JOIN orders_products
ON orders.id = orders_products.order_id
 
INNER JOIN products
ON orders_products.id = products.id
 
WHERE products.name = "iPhone";
 
 
Get a list of all the users (id's are fine) who have placed orders over 300$. N.B. The cost in the products table is in cents, not dollars.
 
SELECT email FROM users
INNER JOIN orders
ON users.id=orders.user_id
INNER JOIN orders_products
ON orders.id=orders_products.product_id
INNER JOIN products ON orders_products.product_id=products.id
HAVING sum(products.cost)>30000;
